# Sprint planning - 2019-09-05


David wants to have discussions about: 

- [ ] Where will the data live (CyVerse vs campus cluster)
- [ ] Clowder IRODS integration
- [ ] Other viable options for data transfer (see icommands benchmarks issue as well)

(Make issues for these - J)

- [ ] Chris needs to look at Docker containers for CyVerse (like Image Quality) and make sure there are not overlaps, toe-stepping, etc.

- [ ] Chris should write tickets for next sprint

- [ ] Chris and Clairessa please review this protocol for submitting extractors and update a new wone  https://docs.terraref.org/developer-manual/developing-clowder-extractors

- [x] Julian to do CUI training & give some paperwork to David to send to Maggie; then get access to GitHub and Slack channels
    - Ticket: <https://github.com/az-digitalag/organization/issues/92>


