# Sprint Planning Meeting 8/22/19

Specific to-dos for each person

## David
* Write a new issue for updating group website
* Figure out specifically what he would like for Chris & Kimberly to do on TERRA REF
* Set up a meeting with Kristina and Julian about DARPA/Welsch stuff

## Kristina
* Talk to David about standardizing DARPA figures, issue #51
* Create issue for further work with BioCro
* Create issue for writing talk abstract for rstudio::conf

## Clairessa
* Create three issues under epic #56

## Julian
* Create an issue about planning for running ED2 (either in Docker on Welsch or in UA HPC)
* Create issues for last four steps in organization issue #44
* Create issue for milestone 17 for moving data from gantry cache server to UA using Globus

## Kimberly
* Kimberly and David should talk about traitvis-webapp #43 during their meeting

## Chris
~~* Chris should write an issue (epic?) for what December release of drone pipeline will look like~~
* Chris should write an issue for adding BETY-YABA API to pipeline for adding data to BETY
* Set up drone pipeline meeting time w/ David, Julian, Tyson? 


