# Sprint planning - 2019-10-17

Present: Chris, David, Julian

Link: <https://hackmd.io/ih-qR2B6RJ221MJEFeEqcA>

File: 2019-10-17_sprint-planning.md

Also see [2019 Q4 OKRs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LSpa24C_ltHGPI1FK5-xjQgobcMmFcbLvO2vRCU6VBw/edit#gid=1777430460)


## Roles

- Scribe: Julian
- Time keeper: David 

## Notes

Started: 13:05
Finished: 13:33

ZenHub broke around 13:25. Will have to pick it up again.


## TODO

- Chris
    - [ ] invite Max to sprint review and planning meetings
    - [ ] remove Clairessa and Kimberly from meetings
    - [ ] change sprint planning meetings so that they don't conflict with Thurs 12-2 terraref meetings
    - [ ] Create issue: Resolve missing FQDN on Welsch (sprint 21)

- David 
    - [x] Check in w/ Nirav about CyVerse components
    - [x] Create writing tasks for Fridays
    - [x] Create issue to brainstorm CALS support projects https://github.com/az-digitalag/organization/issues/110

- Julian
    - [ ] Create issue to document accounts used for Globus, etc.
    - [ ] Create issue to keep track of Makeflow work


